Introduce `flow.serve` into the tutorial (#10556)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/tutorial/deployments.md

---
# Deploying Flows

!!! note "Reminder to start a Prefect API"

>     Some features in this tutorial such as scheduling require a Prefect server to be running; if using a self-hosted setup, simply run `prefect server start` to run both the webserver and UI; if using Prefect Cloud, make sure you have [successfully configured your local profile](/cloud/cloud-quickstart/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Some features in this tutorial, such as scheduling, require a Prefect server to be running; if using a self-hosted setup, simply run `prefect server start` to run both the webserver and UI; if using Prefect Cloud, make sure you have [successfully configured your local profile](/cloud/cloud-quickstart/).
```

## Why deployments?

One of the most common reasons to use a tool like Prefect is [scheduling](/concepts/schedules) or [event-based triggering](/concepts/automations/). Up to this point, we’ve demonstrated running Prefect flows as scripts, but this means *you* have been the one triggering and managing flow runs. You can certainly continue to trigger your workflows in this way and use Prefect as a monitoring layer for other schedulers or systems, but you will miss out on many of the other benefits and features that Prefect offers.

> A deployed flow enhances a normal flow in many ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying a flow exposes an API and UI so that you can:
```

> - a deployment has an API for triggering work, cancelling active runs, pausing scheduled work, customizing parameters, and more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a deployment has an API for triggering work, [cancelling active runs](/concepts/flows/#cancel-a-flow-run), pausing scheduled work, customizing parameters, and more
```

> - a deployment has an API for triggering work, [cancelling active runs](/concepts/flows/#cancel-a-flow-run), pausing scheduled work, customizing parameters, and more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- trigger new runs, [cancel active runs](/concepts/flows/#cancel-a-flow-run), pause scheduled runs, customize parameters, and more
```

> - you can remotely configure schedules and automation rules for your deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- remotely configure schedules and automation rules for your deployments
```

> - you can even use Prefect to dynamically provision infrastructure using [workers](/tutorials/workers/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dynamically provision infrastructure using [workers](/tutorials/workers/)
```

## What is a deployment?

> Deploying a flow is the act of specifying when, where, and how it will run. This information is encapsulated and sent to Prefect as a [Deployment](/concepts/deployments/) which contains the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration. Deployments elevate workflows from functions that you call manually to API-managed entities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploying a flow is the act of specifying when, where, and how it will run. This information is encapsulated and sent to Prefect as a [deployment](/concepts/deployments/) which contains the crucial metadata needed for remote orchestration. Deployments elevate workflows from functions that you call manually to API-managed entities.
```

Attributes of a deployment include (but are not limited to):

- __Flow entrypoint__: path to your flow function 
- __Schedule__ or __Trigger__: optional schedule or triggering rule for this deployment
- __Tags__: optional text labels for organizing your deployments

## Create a deployment

> Using our `get_repo_info` flow from the previous sections, we can easily create a deployment for it by introducing one simple line of code:

Reviewer 2: I really like the continuity

Because this deployment has no schedule or triggering automation, you will need to use the UI or API to create runs for it; let's use the CLI (in a separate terminal window) to see what happens:
<div class="terminal">
```bash
prefect deployment run 'get_repo_info/my-first-deployment'
```
</div>

If you are watching either your terminal or your UI, you should see the newly created run execute successfully!  Let's take this further by adding a schedule and additional metadata.

### Additional options

The `serve` method on flows exposes many options for your deployment; let's use a few of these options now:

- `cron`: a keyword that allows us to set a cron string schedule for the deployment; see [schedules](/concepts/schedules/) for more advanced scheduling options
- `tags`: a keyword that allows us to tag this deployment and its runs for bookkeeping and filtering purposes
- `description`: a keyword that allows us to document what this deployment does; by default the description is set from the docstring of the flow function, but we did not document our flow

> - `version`: a keyword that allows us to track changes to our deployment; by default a hash of the file containing the flow is used. Popular options include semver tags or git commit hashes

Author: whoa, twist!!

        version="tutorial/deployments",
    )
```

When you rerun this script, you will find an updated deployment in the UI that is actively scheduling work!  Stop the script using `CTRL+C` and your schedule will be automatically paused.

!!! note "`.serve` is a long-running process"
    In order for remotely triggered or scheduled runs to be executed, your script with `flow.serve` must be actively running.

## Running multiple deployments at once

This method is useful for creating deployments for single flows, but what if we have two or more flows?  This only requires a few additional method calls and imports to get up and running:

```python hl_lines="2 18-20" title="multi_flow_deployment.py"
import time
from prefect import flow, serve

@flow
def slow_flow(sleep: int = 60):
    "Sleepy flow - sleeps the provided amount of time (in seconds)."
    time.sleep(sleep)

@flow
def fast_flow():
    "Fastest flow this side of the Mississippi."
    return

if __name__ == "__main__":
    slow_deploy = slow_flow.to_deployment(name="sleeper", interval=45)
    fast_deploy = fast_flow.to_deployment(name="fast")
    serve(slow_deploy, fast_deploy)
```

A few observations are in order:

> - flow's `to_deployment` interface exposes the _exact same_ options as `flow.serve`; this method produces a deployment object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `flow.to_deployment` interface exposes the _exact same_ options as `flow.serve`; this method produces a deployment object
```
